Making Great Bliss the Path
Visualisation and Mantra Recitation of Medicine Buddha
from the Net of Wisdom Pure Vision revealed by Dudjom Lingpa

Namo Guru Padmākarāya!
The means of taking the Bliss-Gone One as the path is as follows:
hung, neluk machö trö tadral
Hūṃ! On the basis of the natural state, unaltered, and beyond the limits of conceptualization,
shyir né dechen men gyi la
Arises the Medicine Buddha of great bliss,
tingnak shyi dzum öpung bar
Blue-black in colour, peacefully smiling, and blazing amidst a mass of light.
chak yé chok jin men gyal dang
His right hand is in the mudrā of supreme generosity and holds the king of medicines;
yönpé nyam shyak lhungzé nam
His left hand rests in the mudrā of equipoise and cradles an alms-bowl.
tsenpé rabdzok tulkü ché
Replete with the marks and signs, and nirmāṇakāya ornaments,
pé dé den la kyiltrung shyuk
He sits with legs crossed upon a lotus and moon.
tukkar pema da den la
At his heart, upon a lotus and a moon-disc,
hung yik tamar ngak kyi kor
Is a syllable hūṃ, encircled by the mantra.
depé khorwa dongtruk sam
Reciting the mantra stirs saṃsāra from its very depths!
Uttering the names of the Medicine Buddha with "Namo bhagavate bhaiṣajya... etc.":
om namo bhagawate bhekanzeguru bendurya prabha radzaya | tatagataya arahate samyaksambuddhaya
| teyata | om bhekanze bhekanze maha bhekanze radza samudgate soha
oṃ namo bhagavate bhaiṣajyaguru vaiḍūryaprabharājāya | tathāgatāya arahate samyaksambuddhāya
| tadyathā | oṃ bhaiṣajye bhaiṣajye mahābhaiṣajya-rāja-samudgate svāhā
namo, künkhyab künkhyen küntu zik
Namo! All-pervasive, all-knowing and all-seeing,
dukngal né sel men gyi la
Medicine Buddha, dispeller of suffering and sickness,
ku dang yeshe yönten ter
A treasury of noble qualities, wisdoms and bodies—
yongdzok pal la dü ching tö
To you, the perfect glory, I offer homage and praise!

If you visualize and recite like this, you will approach the path of omniscience. Samaya. Seal.
Seal. Seal. Let the signs be absorbed.

Traktung Dudjom Dorje deciphered this for his own student Jampal. May it be virtuous!

| Translated by Abraham Ta-Quan, 2021.

Source: bdud 'joms gling pa. "dag snang ye shes drwa ba las/sman bla'i bsgom bzas bde chen lam
nyed/." In gter chos/_bdud 'joms gling pa. Thimphu, Bhutan: Lama Kuenzang Wangdue, 2004.
TBRC W28732. Vol. 15: 207.

Version: 1.1-20210616